=head1 NAME

STEREO-pipeline -- post-processing for STEREO/SECCHI

=head1 OVERVIEW

This is a collection of routines that comprise a STEREO spacecraft post-processing pipeline,
to model (and remove) background sources from the STEREO heliospheric imaging data.  It is 
kept as a collection of AutoLoader files in part because that style of development has become
the norm in the solar physics community due to the widespread adoption of SolarSoft
(http://ssw.lmsal.com), and in part because some of the tools are general-purpose enough that
hiding them in a module could be counterproductive.  To use the package, you must first 
install Perl and PDL, then unpack the package into your file system and add an entry 
C<< +<location>/STEREO-pipeline >> to your @PDLLIB variable inside PDL (where C<< <location> >> is
the location into which you unpack the pipeline).  

The routines accept Level 1 (photometrically calibrated) synoptic data from the STEREO/SECCHI instruments
and extract from them a background model that is then subtracted and discarded.  They produce
Thomson-scattering images of the transient solar wind and transient features within it. Typical 
background rejection is 3-4 orders of magnitude (i.e. the background is reduced from a few x 10^-11
mean solar radiances to under 10^-14 mean solar radiances in the HI-1 pipeline).  In the case of data 
from STEREO-A HI-2, this means that output noise levels are within a factor of ~3 of the photon noise floor of the data.

The routines generally manipulate I<batches> of data, because spatiotemporal differences between 
the individual images are used to separate background from desired features.  The batches are merged
after production, to produce individual Level 2 output files.  

In standard usage, the pipeline organizes HI-1 data into 7 day batches that are staggered at 1/2 day
intervals.  The batch epoch is midnight UT on 1-Jan-2007, some four months before the official start of science data, 
and Batch 0 begins at that time and lasts for 7 days.  Batch 1 begins at noon UT on 1-Jan-2007; batch 730 begins 
at midnight on 1-Jan-2008.  The batches are merged after processing, to produce near-full-frame data 
with similar filenames as the original L1 data that were accepted
for use in the pipeline.  The filenames are modified to reflect the Level 2 status of the files.

=head1 OPTIONS PARSING

Most of the routines use a rudimentary options hash to allow adjustment of the algorithm's behavior.
If you do not specify an options hash, or omit an option, then sensible defaults are applied.
Where one routine calls another, the options hash is "passed through".  The options are case sensitive
and may not be abbreviated (which is why it is called "rudimentary").  See the individual modules'
documentation for a description of options accepted by each.

=head1 ROUTINES

Here is a list of the routines that are included in the package, with a brief description of each.
The first few are the main entry points; after that, they are listed in alphabetical order.

=head2 hi1_pipeline_batch

This is the main entry point to process an "official" batch for the pipeline.  It accepts a batch number
and an options hash, attempts to locate all Level 1 data within the time for that batch, adn processes them
with C<< hi1_pipeline >>.

=head2 hi1_pipeline

This is the main HI-1 processing pipeline.  It accepts a list ref containing the names of all the files to 
process, and an options hash (optional).  The output files are deposited by default into the subdir "processed"
of the current working directory.

=head2 hi1_metapipeline

The metapipeline processes a tranche of unofficial batches of files.  It was used for the initial work (in 2008-Dec)
using the pipeline algorithms, and was necessary because the starfield distortion-map algorithm was quite slow at
first and could not be run for each batch.  As of 2013, the distortion-map algorithm is fast enough to be run independently 
for each batch of files, but the metapipeline is retained both for reference and in case it proves useful.


=head2 hi2_pipeline

=head2 hi2_metapipeline

=head2 merge_batch_by_number

=head2 merge_batches


=head2 a_to_main

=head2 centroid_stars

=head2 clean_bad

=head2 correlate_patch

=head2 correlate_patch2

=head2 delaunay

=head2 final_zero

=head2 find_stars

=head2 get_distortion_params

=head2 interp_onto_image

=head2 make_backgrounds

=head2 max_horiz_range

=head2 motion_filter

=head2 motion_filter-a

=head2 null_stars

=head2 remove_f_corona

=head2 remove_fluctuations

=head2 remove_polynomials

=head2 shift_to_celestial

=head2 shift_to_instrument

=head2 spawn_fft

=head2 subtract_backgrounds

=head2 t_nl

=head2 visualize_errors


=head1 LIMITATIONS

As of Winter 2013, the pipeline has been tested on HI-1A and HI-2A data.  It is likely to work
on HI-1B data (and testing will proceed in Spring 2013) but will not work without modification 
on HI-2B data due to the different focus characteristics of that instrument.

The final data product represents photometric I<excess brightness> of I<moving objects> only:
as with an unpolarized coronagraph, it is not possible to separate the steady F coronal background
from a hypothetical steady K coronal component -- and therefore the brightness in the output 
.FITS files represents only excess brightness above a quasi-steady background level that contains
both F and some K.  For certain bright features (e.g. coronal mass ejections or corotating 
interaction regions in the solar wind) the background is negligible; for others (e.g. small
"puffs" or plasmoids in the solar wind) it is not.  The amplitude of bright features is 
photometrically correct to within the limits of the instrument photometric calculation and may
be used to calculate, e.g., excess electron surface densities or variations therein - but, for 
example, the brightnesses of two faint features separated by more than a few days in time may not be 
compared meaningfully and directly.

The background-subtracted images also contain many artifacts, and the user is warned to watch
for them.  In particular:
  
=over 3

=item * B<Stellar "telegraph" print-through>

Pointlike sources undergo small fluctuations in apparent brightness as they cross the pixel grid.
This effect is suppressed for faint stars, but bright stars' and planets' apparent brightness
fluctuates enough (in an absolute sense) to remain once the primary bright point of the planet is
removed.

=item * B<Fourier motion-filter artifacts>

Venus and Mercury can, at certain phases, produce long-lasting artifacts that extend through space
and time.  The artifacts can include converging and/or diverging motions or persistent bright spots.
The artifacts are visually recognizable and should be avoided.

Dust events from the spacecraft can produce single-frame bright streaks or several-frame bright
points.  Data dropouts produce single-frame black rectangles.  Both types of event are amplified 
by the Fourier motion filter, and can extend through several frames.  These artifacts are recognizable
and should be avoided.

In HI-2A images, the Earth occulter at the left side of the frame can contain strangely moving artifacts.
These are not masked out, but should be ignored.

=item * B<Starfield motion artifacts>

The pipeline relies on steady orbital motion and pointing from the spacecraft, to identify the starfield.
It attempts to recognize and avoid pointing shifts such as the occasional roll maneuvers, but can be fooled
by the occasional pointing excursions that are seen throughout the mission.  When small, these excursions
are compensated by the pipeline - but when large, they cause persistent starfield-like artifacts that last
for one batch time (7 days). 

=back

If you have questions, concerns, or bug reports, please contact the author at the e-mail address below, or 
submit an Issue to the L<github site|http://github.com/drzowie/STEREO-pipeline>.

=head1 AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT, LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Craig DeForest

This file may be modified and/or distributed under either the 
L<Gnu Public License (v2)|http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html>
or the L<Perl Artistic license|http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The author thanks the L<STEREO mission|http://stereo.gsfc.nasa.gov/mission/mission.shtml>
and the SECCHI teams at the U.K.'s 
L<Rutherford Appleton Labs|http://www.stfc.ac.uk/RALSpace/Areas+of+expertise/The+Sun/Solar+TErrestrial+RElations+Observatory+(STEREO)/20121.aspx>
and the U.S.'s L<Naval Research Laboratory|http://secchi.nrl.navy.mil> for making their data available; 
and the L<Perl Data Language|http://pdl.perl.org>
development team for their tireless work on improving the language. Several individuals contributed
greatly to the scientific effort embodied in this work.  Of particular note are T. Howard, J. Tappin,
and C. Eyles.

The work to develop this image processing pipeline was funded through multiple grants from NASA and the NSF.
The underlying algorithm is documented in L<an Astrophysical Journal article|http://www.boulder.swri.edu/~deforest/Papers_files/The%20Astrophysical%20Journal%202011%20Deforest.pdf>.

